---
layout: post
title: OverTheWire Bandit Walkthrough (0-5)
---

### Introduction

I was poking around online recently and was hoping to improve my Linux CLI skills, when I came across the wargame <strong><a href="https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/">bandit</a></strong> created by OverTheWire. 

The aim is the game is straightforward, at each level you will be looking for a new password which will allow you to log into the next level. For example when you complete the initial level you will then log in using the bandit1 credentials as opposed to bandit0.

-----

{% highlight text %}
Host : bandit.labs.overthewire.org
Username : bandit0
Password : bandit0 
Port : 2220
{% endhighlight %}

### Bandit Level 0

As posted at the top of this page we start with a username and password to connect to the provided host. This one is pretty simple, you just need to ssh into the machine. Please note you will also need to specify which port you will be using.


{% highlight text %}
ssh -p 2220 bandit0@bandit.labs.overthewire.org
{% endhighlight %}

### Bandit Level 1

The password on this level is stored in a file called readme which is located in the home directory. We are told to use this password to log into <strong>bandit1</strong> using the same method as above. This time we will need to find the password ourselves.

{% highlight text %}
bandit0@bandit:~$ ls
<strong>readme</strong>
bandit0@bandit:~$ file readme
readme: ASCII text
bandit0@bandit:~$ cat readme
boJ9jbbUNNfktd78OOpsqOltutMc3MY1
{% endhighlight %}

Success! <mark>boJ9jbbUNNfktd78OOpsqOltutMc3MY1</mark> is our password.

### Bandit Level 2